[SOURCE_URL]: https://user.netmera.com/netmera-user-guide/web-tools/web-feedback-button/create-a-new-web-feedback-button/adding-click-action
Web Tools
Web Feedback Button
Create a New Web Feedback Button
Adding Click Action
Important Note:
Click actions
can
be assigned to "
Buttons
" and "
Images
" and they can be assigned by clicking on the button/image and navigating to the
Important Note
Your
"Identifier
" code is crucial when you are analyzing your data or assigning click actions to your buttons. Therefore, while you are creating a new widget, pay attention to attributing distinguishable "Identifier" codes to your elements and buttons. You may just simple click on the code and rewrite your own name on it.
How to Add Click Actions
You may create a pop-up which consists of
buttons, ratings, images
and assign click actions to them to encourage your audience to
read your articles, subscribe to your newsletters, rate your service
and more.  When you add click actions to your widget, you create an interactive experience for your users. By adding click actions, you may direct your users to take actions in your widget and further integrate them in your pop-up.
Case Scenario
In this page, we are going to provide a scenario and illustrate how to complete the steps to create this scenario by adding click actions.
Case:
"I want to create a pop-up which aims to test user's satisfaction on a 5 star rating score, and show a 'Thank you.' page to people who have given 4-5 stars; while directing other users who have given 1-3 stars to a feedback page."
Step 1
First, design or edit your own desired widget and add your image, text, rating score element and buttons. Click actions can only be added to
IMAGES
and
BUTTONS
. Therefore, if you want to encourage your audience to take actions in your pop-up, use these two elements.
Click on your Rating element and navigate to "
Settings
Identifiers
Your
"Identifier
" code is crucial when you are analyzing your data or assigning click actions to your buttons. Therefore, while you are creating a new widget, pay attention to attributing distinguishable "Identifier" codes to your elements when needed. You may just simple click on the code and rewrite your own name on it. Here, as our element is Rating, enter identifier as "rating".
Identifiers
Step 2
By clicking on +Add View, add as many pages as you need to your widget. After customizing the other pages of your pop-up, we can move on to adding click actions to our buttons to navigate our audience to see the other pages and take actions in them.
View 2
View 3
Step 3
On Step 3, we are going to assign click actions to our buttons in order to navigate users to the correct pages. As we have decided that users who have given 4-5 will be taken to "Thank you" page (View 3), and the other users will be first directed to the "Feedback" page (View 2) and then View 3,
we are going to use the identifier of our rating element and assign click actions accordingly.
First, click on the button on our widget and then choose "
Click Actions
". Then a window will pop up on the right side of the page.
For Action 1, choose
"Go to view"
and select View 2 (Feedback) and add a
condition
as "rating -> less than or equal to -> 3" and click add and Save. Now your audience who have rated less than or equal to 3 will be directed to Feedback page when they click "Submit" button.
Action 1
Action 2
Continue with View 2 and View 3 to finalize all click actions as we have mentioned here. "Go to View" is only one of the options that you might choose as an action, if you aim to collect data you may add action "Send Data" and or if you aim to redirect your users to a URL, you may choose the relevant action and complete the steps.
Select Action
Step 4
After you have finalized all the elements and  click actions, you may simply click Save Widget and Return. Your widget will be saved on "Your Widgets".
How to Customize Widgets
Web Personalization
1 year ago