[SOURCE_URL]: https://user.netmera.com/netmera-user-guide/campaigns/mobile-push/button-sets
Campaigns
Mobile Push
Button Sets
Settings
Button Settings ->
Create New Button Set
Quick Steps Guideline
Go to your Netmera Panel and click:
Settings
Button Sets ->
Create New Button Set
Go to the "
Settings
" section of Netmera. Click on "
Button Sets
" and then click "
Create New Button Set
Choose a name for your button set from the "
Button Set Name
" field.
Enter an entry for your button in the "
Button Text
" field.
Customize your Button according to your needs.
Click on the "
Add Button
" button.
Tip:
You can choose the text that will be displayed on the button, select an icon to appear on the button (Android only), or make the button display in red (iOS only).
For iOS, you can also require users to unlock their device's lock screen before opening the app with the button, choose whether the app will open in the foreground or background when the button is clicked, and allow users to enter text by clicking the button.
Create New Button
There are some additional features that you can use when creating buttons:
Important Note
After you have created your button sets and clicked on "
Create New Button
", for the final step you need to click on
"Publish to Devices".
When you click on "Publish to Devices" it sends a silent push to your customers' devices for the button sets update.
Button Name
: This is the text that will be displayed on the button.
Button Icon (Android)
: This is a feature that allows you to select an icon to appear on the button, but it is only available on the Android platform.
Destructive (IOS)
: This is a feature that allows the buttons to be displayed in red, but it is only available on the iOS platform.
Authorization mode (IOS)
: This is a feature that requires iOS users to unlock their device's lock screen before opening the app by clicking the button.
Run application in (IOS):
This is a feature that allows you to decide whether the application will open in the foreground or the background when the user clicks the button, but it is only available on the iOS platform.
Button Behavior (IOS)
: This is a feature that allows the user to enter a text by clicking the button, but it is only available on the iOS platform.
If you want to remove a button from your button set, you can use the "
Remove Button from Button Set
" option.
Button Sets
Click Action
After you save your button set, when you are on page "What" on your notification, you will see that button sets are ready for your use. Then you may decide on your
Click Action
for those buttons you have created before.
When creating a button in Netmera, there are several options available to you. You can choose to make the button open your app's home screen, navigate to a specific URL with the "
Show Web Page
" option, create a deep link to a specific location within your app with the "
Go to Deep Link
" option, or direct the user to a custom page within the app with the "
Show Custom Page
" option. Alternatively, you can choose for nothing to happen when the button is clicked. The "
Web Hook for Button Action
" option allows you to integrate the button with an external service through web hooks, while the "
Set User Attribute or Tag
" option allows you to assign a tag or attribute to the user for future targeting and segmentation purposes.
Open App Home Screen:
This option will bring the user to the app's home screen when the button is clicked.
Show Web Page:
Selecting "Show Web Page" will make your button navigate the user to the URL you have entered.
Go to Deep Link:
This option allows you to create a deep link for your app. When the user clicks on the button, the app will open at a specific location or content.
Show Custom Page:
This option allows you to create a custom page within your app. When the user clicks on the button, they will be directed to this page.
Nothing:
Selecting this option means that nothing will happen when the user clicks on the button.
Web Hook for Button Action:
This option allows you to integrate your button with an external service through web hooks. When the button is clicked, it will trigger the web hook and execute the associated action.
Set User Attribute or Tag:
This option allows you to assign a tag or attribute to the user when they click on the button. This information can be used for future targeting and segmentation purposes.
Example:
You could use the "Show Custom Page" option to create a custom page within your app that showcases the sale items in that category. When the user clicks on the button, they will be directed to this page and can browse the sale items.
Additionally, you could use the "Set User Attribute or Tag" option to assign a tag to the user when they click on the button, indicating their interest in this particular product category. This information can be used in the future for targeted marketing and segmentation purposes.
Personalized Messages
Define Segment
1 year ago