[SOURCE_URL]: https://user.netmera.com/netmera-user-guide/web-tools/web-push
Web Tools
Web Push
Engage, captivate, and connect with your website visitors like never before. You can deliver real-time messages directly to your users' browsers, keeping them informed, entertained, and engaged.
Whether you're looking to
boost website traffic, increase conversions, or improve user engagement,
Netmera's Web Push Notifications have you covered. Start leveraging the power of timely, targeted, and visually compelling notifications to drive your digital success.
Web Push Categories
Web Text Push
Harness the power of words with our Text Notifications. Craft compelling messages that grab attention, entice action, and deliver your key information with precision. From important announcements and limited-time offers to personalized updates, our Text Notifications ensure your messages are delivered promptly and effectively.
Web Image Push
They say a picture is worth a thousand words, and Image Notifications take this concept to the next level. Stand out from the crowd by incorporating eye-catching visuals into your notifications. From product images and event posters to stunning graphics, leave a long lasting impression on your audience.
Notification
Strenghts
Weaknesses
Platform
Text
Quick and easy to read. Can be used to convey important information.
Limited in terms of visual content.
Web
Image
Messages can be enriched by adding images or videos, more visually appealing.
May not be suitable for delivering text-heavy information. Users may need to click through to view the full message.
Web (Chrome)
Join us on this exciting journey and unlock the full potential of Web Push Notifications with Netmera. Together, let's redefine how you connect with your audience and create memorable user experiences.
So, if you're ready, let's start
Creating a Web Push!
You may also refer to our following blog post for further readings.
How to Build an Efficient Web Push Notification Strategy? - Netmera
Netmera - Omni channel marketing solution
Web Push Strategy
Creating a Web Push Campaign
Message Categories
Personalized Messages
Button Sets
Define Segment
Tags / Upload User List
Fancy Box Setup
About Web Tools
Creating a Web Push Campaign
1 year ago