[SOURCE_URL]: https://user.netmera.com/netmera-developer-guide/platforms/ios/former-ios-objective-c/push-notifications/push-icon
Platforms
iOS
Former iOS (Objective-C)
Push Notifications
Push Icon
By default, iOS displays the app icon in push notifications. However, you can personalize the notifications with custom icons to better align with your branding and messaging. Below are the steps to set up and manage custom push icons.
Requirements
Media Push Integration
: Media push integration must also be implemented. Please see our documentation for more details on
Media Push
Default Push Icon
When creating a new campaign, if the "Custom Push Icon" option is turned off or not configured.
The system checks the icon name specified in
Developer > App Info > iOS Push Style > Default Notification Icon
If an icon name is provided in this field, push notifications will use the default icon.
iOS Push Notifications with Custom Icons
In iOS, push notifications are displayed with your app icon by default. If you update your app icon via
Xcode > Assets > App Icon
, the push notification icon will automatically reflect this update.
Using Custom Icons for Push Notifications
To send push notifications with a custom icon instead of the default app icon, follow these steps:
App Icon
: Appears as a
small icon
Netmera Icon
) in the bottom-right corner of the notification.
Custom Icon
: Serves as the primary,
larger icon
Impact Icon
) in the notification.
This feature enables personalized notifications while maintaining brand recognition with the app icon.
Step 2: Add Communication Notification Capability
Integrate the
Communication Notification
capability into your project. This enables the custom push functionality for your app.
Step 3: Configure
Info.plist
Add
NSUserActivityTypes
with
InSendMessageIntent
item 0
to the Info.plist of the main project.
Step 4: Include Visuals in Service Extension
Add your custom icon image to the
Service Extension
section of your project to ensure that the icon is used and displayed properly in the notification.
Step 5: Push Icon Configuration
Navigate to
Netmera Panel > Developer > App Info > iOS Push Style
and enter the name of your custom push icon in the
Default Notification Icon
field.
When entering the custom icon file name, include the full file name along with its extension (e.g.,
icon.png
Creating a Push with Custom Push Icon
In the "What" Step
of the campaign setup, enable the
Custom Push Icon
option.
Select Custom Icon
: Choose your desired custom icon.
When Custom Push Icon Is Turned Off:
If the
Custom Push Icon
option is disabled, the system will use the default notification icon specified in
Developer > App Info > iOS Push Style
(if provided).
Custom Web View Presentation
Live Activities
1 month ago