[SOURCE_URL]: https://user.netmera.com/netmera-developer-guide/platforms/ios/new-ios-swift/events
Platforms
iOS
New iOS (Swift)
Events
Netmera offers a complete set of trackable events, giving you valuable insights into user behavior and app performance. These events fall into two main categories:
Standard Events
, which include Automated and Pre-defined Events and
Custom Events
Detailed Event Definitions:
For detailed information on event definitions, please consult our
User Guide.
Automated Events
App Installs
App Opens
Push Receipts (requires dashboard configuration)
Push Opens
Log Events
Time in App
Geofence Enter/Exit (requires geofence setup)
Web View Actions
Pre-defined Events
Pre-defined Events are built-in, ready-to-use events that you can easily integrate into your application. These events come with pre-written code examples to simplify implementation. You can trigger these events using the provided sample code patterns:
Pre-defined Events List
Screen View Event
: Logs when a specific screen is viewed.
Login Event
: Captures user login actions.
Register Event
: Tracks user registration actions.
Search Event
: Records search actions performed by users.
Share Event
: Logs when content is shared from the app.
In-App Purchase Event
: Captures in-app purchase transactions.
Banner Click Event
: Tracks clicks on banners within the app.
Category View Event
: Logs views of specific categories.
Battery Level Event
: Monitors the battery level during app usage.
Product View Event
: Tracks when a product is viewed.
Product Rate Event
: Logs when a product is rated.
Product Comment Event
: Captures comments made on products.
Order Cancel Event
: Records when an order is canceled.
Purchase Event
: Logs completed purchase transactions.
Cart View Event
: Tracks views of the shopping cart.
Add To Cart Event
: Captures when items are added to the cart.
Remove From Cart Event
: Logs when items are removed from the cart.
Add To Wishlist Event
: Tracks when items are added to a wishlist.
Content Comment Event
: Captures comments made on content.
Content Rate Event
: Logs ratings given to content.
Content View Event
: Tracks views of media content.
Swift
// Generate an event instance
// This can be any NetmeraEvent subclass (e.g., NetmeraLoginEvent)
let event = NetmeraLoginEvent(userId: "USER_ID")
// Send the event
Netmera.send(event!)
Custom Events
Custom Events provide flexibility beyond the standard and pre-defined options to allow you to track specific user interactions and behaviors within your application.
Step 1: Define the Event in the Netmera Panel
Go to the
Netmera Panel
and navigate to
Developers > Events > Create New Event
section.
Create a new event and specify the event parameters.
Set parameter types, define mandatory fields, and configure arrays if required.
Refer to the
Creating Custom Events
guide for detailed instructions.
Step 2: Import the Generated Code
After creating the event,
Netmera
generates a code snippet.
Import this generated code into your project to integrate the custom event.
Sample Generated Code
Step 3: Extend the Event Class in Your Code
Choose a built-in event subclass or extend from
NetmeraEvent
Define event parameters and ensure they match the panel setup.
Step 4: Fire the Event
Make sure the event is correctly set up in the
Netmera Panel
before triggering it.
Implement the event call in your application code.
Ensure Mandatory Parameters Are Included
If a required parameter is missing, the request will fail with a
bad request
error. Always send mandatory parameters to avoid rejection.
Custom Events Sample Codes
When you create an event on the panel, you will receive a code. You are supposed to import the code the panel created for you in your project. Below you will see examples.
Swift
var event = new SampleEvent();
event.intParameter = 2147483647;
event.stringParameter = "String Parameter";
event.stringArrayParameter = ["Member1", "Member2"];
event.doubleParameter = 7.99;
event.booleanParameter = true;
event.longParameter = 9223372036854775807;
event.dateParameter = new Date();
event.timestampParameter = new Date();
Netmera.send(event);
Importing Events to Apps
If you have multiple apps in the Netmera Panel, you can import events from one app to another. This lets you reuse events across apps efficiently.
Go to the
Developers
section and select
Events.
Click
Import Event Definition.
Choose the
Application Name
from which you want to import events.
Select the specific
custom event(s)
you want to import.
Click the
Import
button in the
Action
section.
Push Inbox
Geofence & Location
12 days ago